.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Craig Stuart Sapp, All rights reserved.  
.\"
.\"	@(#)smake.1	
.\"
.TH SMAKE 1 "December 20, 1996"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
.I smake 
\- Simple MAKE.  Executes a command string embedded in a file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +\w'\fBsmake \fR'u
.ti -\w'\fBsmake \fR'u
\fBsmake \fR 
[\fB\-s \fIskip\fR][\fB\-v \fIvariant\fR |\fB\-c\fR][\fB\-e|\-x\fR] \fR\fIinput-file\fR [\fIparameters\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Smake
searches for the character pattern \fI$Smake:\fR in a file.  When it finds
that pattern, smake will execute, as a shell command, the text following
\fI$Smake:\fR to the end of the line.
.LP
There are several symbolic patterns that can be used in the embedded command:
.LP
.TP 9
.BR %f
If this character pattern is in the embedded command, the input filename passed 
to \fIsmake\fR will be substituted.
.TP 9
.BR %b
If this character pattern is in the command, the filename minus
the characters after the last period will be removed, as well as the
last period.  For example, the basename of 
.I test.c 
is 
.IR test \ .
.TP 9
.BR %<newl>
Where <newl> is the newline character. If % comes at the end of the 
line with no other characters except the newline character following
it, the embedded command continues on the following line.  The \fI\-s\fR
option determines where the command resumes on the next line.
.TP 9
.BR %1 -- %9
If any parameters follow the input-file on the command line, then
these parameters get matched to the symbols %1, %2, etc. up to %9.
If there is no passed parameter for a particular symbol, then it is 
left unchanged in the command.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP 9
.BR \-s\ \fIskip\fR
.I skip
is the number of characters to skip at the beginning of a new line for
the shell command line\-continuation.  The default value of \fIskip\fR
is 4.  It is an error to skip beyond the end of the line.
.TP 9
.BR \-v\ \fIvariant\fR
.I variant
is a string used to distinguish between different possible commands
to extract.  The form of the marker in the file is
\fI$Smake-variant:\fR.
.TP 9
.BR \-e\ 
.I echo
the embedded command string without executing it.
.TP 9
.BR \-x\ 
.I execute
the command string only, without printing it to the terminal as well.
.TP 9
.BR \-c\ \fIpattern\fR
.I pattern
is a string to replace the default marker \fI$Smake:\fR with
\fIpattern\fR.
.LP
.SH EXAMPLES
.DT
.br
A command to compile a c program, and strip the executable:
.LP
// $Smake: \ \  gcc -O -o %b %f && strip %b
.LP
A command to produce and display a PostScript file from a TeX file:
.LP
% $Smake: \ \   tex %b && dvips -o %b.ps %b && open %b.ps 
.br
.SH BUGS
.DT
.br
Cannot use the -v option and the -c option at the same time.
